Evikulov/readme update (#63)
RonasIT/laravel-swagger: readme.md

# Laravel Swagger plugin

<p align="left">
<a href="https://packagist.org/packages/ronasit/laravel-swagger"><img src="https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/ronasit/laravel-swagger" alt="Total Downloads"></a>
<a href="https://packagist.org/packages/ronasit/laravel-swagger"><img src="https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/ronasit/laravel-swagger" alt="Latest Stable Version"></a>
<a href="https://packagist.org/packages/ronasit/laravel-swagger"><img src="https://img.shields.io/packagist/l/ronasit/laravel-swagger" alt="License"></a>
</p>

## Introduction

This plugin is designed to generate documentation for your REST API during the 

> passing the tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
passing PHPUnit tests.
```

## Installation

1. Require this package with composer using the following command: `composer require ronasit/laravel-swagger`

    > ***Note***
    > 
    > For Laravel 5.5 or later the package will be auto-discovered.

>     > For older versions add the `AutoDocServiceProvider` to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > For elder versions add the `AutoDocServiceProvider` to the
```

    > providers array in `config/app.php` as follow:
    > 
    > ```php
    > 'providers' => [
    >    // ...
    >    RonasIT\Support\AutoDoc\AutoDocServiceProvider::class,
    > ],
    > ```

 1. Run `php artisan vendor:publish`

>  2. Add middleware `\RonasIT\Support\AutoDoc\Http\Middleware\AutoDocMiddleware::class` into `Http/Kernel.php`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 2. Add `\RonasIT\Support\AutoDoc\Http\Middleware\AutoDocMiddleware::class` middleware to the global HTTP middleware stack in `Http/Kernel.php`.
```

>  3. Add `\RonasIT\Support\AutoDoc\Tests\AutoDocTestCaseTrait` in your `TestCase` in `tests/TestCase.php`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 3. Add `\RonasIT\Support\AutoDoc\Tests\AutoDocTestCaseTrait` trait to `tests/TestCase.php`
```

            <extension class="RonasIT\Support\AutoDoc\Tests\PhpUnitExtensions\SwaggerExtension"/>
        </extensions>
        <testsuites>
            <testsuite name="Feature">
                <directory suffix="Test.php">./tests/Feature</directory>
            </testsuite>
        </testsuites>
        ```
   - Call `php artisan swagger:push-documentation` console command after
    the `tests` stage in your CI/CD configuration

## Usage

### Basic usage

1. Create test for API endpoint:

    ```php
    public function testUpdate()
    {
        $response = $this->json('put', '/users/1', [
            'name': 'Updated User',
            'is_active': true,
            'age': 22
        ]);

        $response->assertStatus(Response::HTTP_NO_CONTENT);
    }
    ```

2. Create request class:

    ```php
    <?php

    namespace App\Http\Requests;  
    
    use Illuminate\Foundation\Http\FormRequest;
    
    /**
    * @summary Update user
    *
    * @description
    * This request should be used for updating the user data
    *
    * @_204 Successful
    * 
    * @is_active will indicate whether the user is active or not
    */
    class UpdateUserDataRequest extends FormRequest

>     {
>         /**
>         * Determine if the user is authorized to make this request.
>         *
>         * @return bool
>         */

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {
        /**
         * Determine if the user is authorized to make this request.
         *
         * @return bool
         */
```

        public function authorize()
        {
            return true;
        }  
    

>         /**
>         * Validation Rules
>         *
>         * @return array
>         */

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        /**
         * Validation Rules
         *
         * @return array
         */
```

        public function rules()
        {
            return [
                'name' => 'string',
                'is_active' => 'boolean',
                'age' => 'integer|nullable'
            ];
        }
    }

    ```

    > ***Note***
    > 
    > For correct working of plugin you'll have to dispose all the validation rules 
    > in the `rules()` method of your request class. Also, your request class

>     > must be connected to the controller via `dependency injection`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > must be connected to the controller via [dependency injection](https://laravel.com/docs/9.x/container#introduction).
```

>     > Plugin will take validation rules from your request and use it as description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > Plugin will take validation rules from the request class and generate fields description
```

    > of input parameter.

3. Run tests
4. Go to route defined in the `auto-doc.route` config
5. Profit!
   
    ![img.png](assets/images/img.png)

### Annotations

You can use the following annotations in your request classes to customize documentation of your API endpoints:

- **@summary** - short description of request
- **@description** - implementation notes
- **@_204** - custom description of response code. You can specify any code as you want.
- **@some_field** - description of the field from the rules method
 
> ***Note***
> 
> If you do not use request class, the summary and description and parameters will be empty.

### Configs

- `auto-doc.route` - route for generated documentation
- `auto-doc.basePath` - root of your API

### Custom driver

> You can specify way to collect documentation by creating your custom driver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can specify the way to collect documentation by creating your own custom driver.
```

  ```
  - Call `php artisan swagger:push-documentation` console command after the `tests` stage in your CI/CD configuration

> ## Usage

Reviewer: let's extend the structure

```php
## Usage

### Basic usage
...
### Annotations
...
### Configs
...

### Custom driver
```

> 1. Create request data fixture

Reviewer: let's remove the first point and use permanent data inside the test case

 ```json
 {
    "name": "Updated User",
    "is_active": true,
    "age": 22
 }
```
2. Create test for API endpoint:
 ```php
public function testUpdate()
{
    $data = json_decode(file_get_contents('update_user.json'), true);

    $response = $this->json('put', '/users/1', $data);

    $response->assertStatus(Response::HTTP_NO_CONTENT);
}
 ```

> 3. Create request file code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Create request class.
```

> For correct working of plugin you have to dispose all the validation rules 

Reviewer: please place it under the class example

  - Call `php artisan swagger:push-documentation` console command after the `tests` stage in your CI/CD configuration

> ## Usages

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Usage
```

> To collect documentation run following steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> ### Example

Reviewer 2: please remove this heading

1. Create request data fixture

>  ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 ```json
```

 {
    "first_name": "Updated User",
    "is_active": true,
    "age": 22
 }

>  ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 ```

```

> 2. Prepare test case code of API endpoint

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Create test for testing API endpoint:
```

 ```php

>     public function testUpdate()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
public function testUpdate()
```

>     {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{
```

>         $data = json_decode(file_get_contents('update_user.json'), true);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    $data = json_decode(file_get_contents('update_user.json'), true);
```

>         $response = $this->json('put', '/users/1', $data);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    $response = $this->json('put', '/users/1', $data);
```

>         $response->assertStatus(Response::HTTP_NO_CONTENT);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    $response->assertStatus(Response::HTTP_NO_CONTENT);
```

>     }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
}
```

>  ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 ```

```

3. Create request file code.

> For correct working of plugin you have to dispose all the validation rules in the rules() method of `YourRequest` class,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For correct working of plugin you have to dispose all the validation rules in the `rules()` method of `UpdateUserDataRequest` class,
```

> which must be connected to the controller via DependencyInjection. In annotation of custom request you can specify

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
which must be connected to the controller via Dependency Injection.
```

> summary and description. Plugin will take validation rules from your request and use it as description

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Plugin will take validation rules from your request and use it as description
```

     public function rules()
     {
         return [
             'name' => 'string',
             'is_active' => 'boolean',
             'age' => 'integer|nullable'
         ];
     }
 }

 ```
You can use the following annotations in your request classes to customize documentation of your API endpoints:

 - **@summary** - short description of request
 - **@description** - Implementation Notes
 - **@_204** - Custom description of response code. You can specify any code as you want.
 - **@some_field** - Description of the field from the rules method
 

> If you do not create a class Request, the summary, Implementation Notes and parameters will be empty.

Reviewer: let's mark this sentence as a note

> So, you can specify the way to collect documentation by creating your custom data collector class.

Reviewer: Please remove this sentece and describe the "Custom driver" block

> 4. Create Controller file code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Inject the request class into controller method
```

```php
public function update(UpdateUserDataRequest $request, $id)
{
    User::where('id', $id)->update($request->validated());
    
    return response('', Response::HTTP_NO_CONTENT);
}
```
5. Run tests

> 6. Go to route defined in config auto-doc.route

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Go to route defined in the `auto-doc.route` config
```

>  - **@summary** - short description of request

Reviewer 2: need to add the sentence before:

```md
You can use the following annotations in your request classes to customize documentation of your API endpoints:
```

 - **@description** - Implementation Notes
 - **@_204** - Custom description of response code. You can specify any code as you want.

>  - **@first_name** - Description of the field from the rules method

Reviewer 2: please revert

>  If you do not create a class Request, the summary, Implementation Notes and parameters will be empty. 

Reviewer 2: please remove the text below to the line `so, you can specify way to collect documentation by creating your custom data collector class.`

 - *auto-doc.route* - it's a route for generated documentation  
 - *auto-doc.basePath* - it's a root of your api root
 
Also, you can specify way to collect documentation by creating your custom data collector class.

> 

Reviewer 2: let's add example of controller method:

```php
public function update(UpdateUserDataRequest $request)
{
     ...
}
```

> ### Test result

Reviewer 2: please remove the heading

> ![img.png](assets/images/img.png)

Reviewer 2: add the steps before:

4. Run tests
5. Go to route defined in config `auto-doc.route`
6. Profit!

And paster the image here.
